the first type of macromolecule we'll
consider are carbohydrates also called
glycans or polysaccharides carbohydrates
get their name from their chemical
formula which is c plus h2o to get ch2o
carbon plus water now if you take this C
h2o and multiply it by n which is the
number of carbons you get the chemical
formula for simple sugars for instance
glucose our hexose has six carbons and
to get the chemical formula for glucose
you multiply C h2o by six and you get c6
h-12 o-6 the other most common type of
sugar in a cell have five carbons and
those are called pentoses this is a
perfectly valid way of drawing a glucose
molecule or the structure of a glucose
molecule but you have to realize that in
cells glucose molecules are in water and
in water glucose molecules circularize
to form these cyclic type structures in
water these simple sugars like glucose
and and also five carbon sugars like
pentose can link them or through these
covalent bonds called glycosidic bonds
which is shown here the glycosidic bonds
involve the hydroxyls on these sugars
since the sugars have multiple hydroxyls
each sugar can bond to more than two
other sugars and the result is that you
get branched chain structures the cell
uses carbohydrates glycans are
polysaccharides for energy storage as in
starch or glycogen or for structural
person verses such as cellulose for
plant cells